# Solar Wind Rose ✨

Create a wind rose image based on the relative positions of the planets. Set this image as the desktop background. The current planetary positions are available through the [JPL HORIZONS interface](https://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/?horizons).

## Get data
The `expect_horizon` code file uses the expect command to get the planetary position. It must be run separately for each planet and it will return daily locations from `START` until `END`. These locations are available via Horizon's anonymous FTP and have to be downloaded manually.

`expect_horizon` is run from the command line with the argument indicating which planet you want data for. This follows the Horizon object naming, e.g. 199 is mercury, 299 is venus etc. At the start of the file you can edit the default values for `START` and `END` for the range you would like planetary positions, and `COORD_CENTER` for your reference point on Earth.

The generated data is available via ftp through the windows terminal (linux can connect but apparently not download files) or Filezilla. The `FTP` address is "ssd.jpl.nasa.gov".

The ephemeris data must be added to the folder `solarWindRose/data` and each file renamed to `mercury.15` etc. There are example datasets in `solarWindRose/data/test`.


## Generate figure
The figure is generated by the `generate_figure.py` file. Before running it you will have to update the absolute path to match your own set up. On the left hand side is each of the 8 planets and pluto (9 in total) arranged nearest to the sun to further from top to bottom. The size of the planet is proportional to the planet's volume. The polar bar plot indicates the direction and distance (ignoring the z dimension) of each planet from Earth, specifically Greenwich observatory by default. The width of each bar is scaled so that, under the assumption that the bars are triangular, the area is fixed.

## Set background to figure
At the end of `generate_figure.py` it uses ctypes to set the desktop background to the generated figre. Before running it you will have to update the absolute path to match your own set up. The batch file `generate_figure.bat` runs the `generate_figure.py` file. Windows Scheduler is set to run this batch file as a basic task on log in. This means that everytime you log in the background is updated to reflect the current planetary positions.